CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

= Contributing
:toc:
:revdate: {docdatetime}
:revnumber: 0.0.0

Welcome! We are excited that you are interested in contributing to our project!
However, there are some things you might need to know, so please browse the following:

[[ways-to-contribute]]
== Ways to Contribute

There are multiple ways of getting involved:

As a new contributor, you are in an excellent position to give us feedback to our project. For example, you could:

* Fix or report a bug.
* Suggest enhancements to code, tests and documentation.
* Report/fix problems found during installing or developer environments.
* Add suggestions for something else that is missing.

[[community-guideline]]
== Community Guideline

Be nice and respectful to each other.

We follow the link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Contributor Covenant Code Of Conduct].

[[file-issue]]
== File an Issue

Please check briefly if there already exists an Issue with your topic.
If so, you can just add a comment to that with your information instead of creating a new Issue.

=== Report a bug

Reporting bugs is a good and easy way to contribute.

To do this, open an Issue that summarizes the bug and set the label to "bug".

=== Suggest a feature

To request a new feature you should and summarize the desired functionality and its use case.
Set the Issue label to "feature" or "enhancement".

=== Jitsi specific features
If the feature involves manipulating and/or retrieving data from the current Jitsi instance, it is crucial to conduct research to determine whether it is possible using the Jitsi API. The API documentation can be found https://jitsi.github.io/handbook/docs/dev-guide/dev-guide-iframe[here].


[[contribute-code]]
== Contribute Code, Documentation and more

You want to contribute code, documentation or 'your fantastic thing x'.
Great, however, there are some practical points to check to make sure that everything runs as smoothly as possible.

* It is always best to discuss your plans beforehand, to ensure that your contribution is in line with the project goals.
* Check the list of open Issues. Either assign an existing issue to yourself, or create a new one that you would like to work on, and discuss your ideas and use cases.
* Follow the project convention and style regarding test, code and documentation, commit style etc.
* The project can decide to decline a contribution not following the general project guidelines, or deemed to not fit into the general project goal/architecture.
* Make sure you have an understanding of the link:#pull-request[Pull Request Lifecycle]
* You agree to that in general, all contributions to this project will be released under the **inbound=outbound** norm, that is,
 contributions are submitted under the same terms as the project licenses. In a more formal way - 'Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of the projects License, without any additional terms or conditions.'
* link:#signoff-and-signing-a-commit[Sign your commits].

[[code-review]]
== Issues and Pull Request Feedback

The listed project maintainers (see the link:README.md[README]) of the project are doing their best to review and/or respond to Issues. *If the project is not listed as archived, it is maintained.*
You should expect feedback for an Issue or Pull Request in 5 business days.

NOTE: Feedback might mean a lot of things depending on the scope of your Issue/Pull Request.
What you should expect is at least a comment on your Issue.

NOTE: For non trivial and proposed bigger contributions, please discuss the contribution with the project first.
There might be occasions where the cost of maintenance and review have to be agreed upon before it can be merged and reviewed.

The quality of the given information in your Pull Request/Issue will affect the feedback loop.
So please keep the focus and topic, and be sure to give as much relevant information as possible.
It is highly recommended that you fill in the requested fields when submitting a contribution.

[[pull-request]]
== Pull Request Lifecycle

Generally speaking, you should fork this repository, make changes in your own fork, and then submit a pull-request.
This workflow is common, maybe even expected if nothing else mentioned, and is called the https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models#fork-and-pull-model[Fork-and-Pull model]

A practical example of such a workflow could be:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a topic branch from your fork main branch, i.e. myfeaturebranch
3. Push your changes to the topic branch (in your fork) of the repository, i.e myfeaturebranch.
4. Open a new pull request to main project.
5. Project maintainers might comment and give feedback on your Pull Request.

[[commit-guideline]]
== Commit Guideline

=== DCO - Signoff and Signing a Commit

NOTE: Signoff and signing: Two similar terms for two different things +
**_A Signoff assures to the project that you have the right to contribute your content_** +
**_A Sign assures that the commit came from you_**

==== Signoff (DCO agree)

A standard practice in the Open Source communities is the https://developercertificate.org/[DCO - Developer Certificate of Origin].
DCO a lightweight way for a project to assure that the contributor wrote and/or have the right to submit the contribution.

It is super simple!

As part of filing a pull request you agree to the DCO - by just adding a *sign off*  to your commit.
Technically, this is done by supplying the `-s`/`--signoff` flag to your Git commits:

Example:
[source,shell]
----
$ git commit --signoff -m 'fix: add fix for superbug x'
----

==== Sign

You can also sign the commit with `-S`/`--gpg-sign`.
Besides extra trust, it also gives your commit a nice verified button in the UI on most Git platforms and further assures trust.

Older versions of Git requires that you have a GPG keypair set up, see https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/signing-commits[Sign commit on GitHub with GPG key].
For newer versions you can use SSH for signing https://github.blog/changelog/2022-08-23-ssh-commit-verification-now-supported/[Sign commit on GitHub with SSH key].

[source,shell]
----
`$ git commit --signoff --gpg-sign -m "fix: add fix for the bug"`
----

=== Commit Standard

Aim for a clear human readable commit history:

* **_First - does the project have a defined commit message practice, please follow that_**.
* Make sure you link:#dco-signoff-and-signing-a-commitsign-off[Sign-Off] your commits.
* In general
    ** If the project does not have a commit standard set, you might want to consider https://www.conventionalcommits.org[Conventional Commit standard].
    ** Group relevant changes in commits, avoid scope creep and keep focus on the relevant issue.
    ** Your commit messages should tell a human reader what will it do when the commit is applied.
    ** Make your commit message/s easily human readable in a expected way: +
        *** A Conventional Commit example: +
        _fix: add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter_ +
        Would be read as 'When this fix is applied it will add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter'

[[security]]
== Reporting security issues

If you discover a security issue, please bring it to our attention.

If the vulnerability is a widely known issue, detected by various Vulnerability Scanning sources it might be okay to file an public Issue.

However, if any uncertainty around this, please **DO NOT** file a public issue, see link:SECURITY.md[Security information] for how to handle this.

Security reports are *greatly* appreciated.

[[development]]
== Development Guidelines

For a guide on how to get started with Development, see the link:./DEVELOPMENT.adoc[DEVELOPMENT Guide].

[[writing_style]]
## Writing style and Translations

Here are a few guidelines regarding text and documentation.

- Aim to keep the documentation EASY to read, and avoid the official "agency authority" style.
- Don't be to verbose, bullet points are good in this context.
- Be concise, in terminology, and avoid longer explanations, link instead.
- Write in British English first, i.e. colour instead of color.
- Strive to use https://sembr.org/[one-sentence-per-line] when writing in MarkDown or AsciiDoc.

English is the projects primary language, and any translations are done on a best effort basis.
This implies that for any contributions to the translated version, make sure that the English primary version contains the corresponding change.

[[standards]]
## FOSS Standards

This project aims to comply to the principles outlined in the following standards:

* License compliance with the https://reuse.software/[REUSE specification] (and with that, https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/[SPDX-declarations]).
* Commits in the https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/[Conventional Commits format]
* Changelog in the https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/[Keep-A-Changelog format]
* Contribution guidelines https://www.contributor-covenant.org/[Contributor Covenant guidelines]
* Criteria for the project https://standard.publiccode.net/[Standard for Public Code]


**_Happy contributing!_**

Commit message:

feat: Add the Open Source template
Added a section for the project's commit standard and two more maintainers in CODEOWNERS

Signed-off-by: Konstantin Ay <konstantin.ay@intunio.se>

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

= Contributing
:toc:
:revdate: {docdatetime}
:revnumber: 0.0.0

Welcome! We are excited that you are interested in contributing to our project!
However, there are some things you might need to know, so please browse the following:

[[ways-to-contribute]]
== Ways to Contribute

There are multiple ways of getting involved:

As a new contributor, you are in an excellent position to give us feedback to our project. For example, you could:

* Fix or report a bug.
* Suggest enhancements to code, tests and documentation.
* Report/fix problems found during installing or developer environments.
* Add suggestions for something else that is missing.

[[community-guideline]]
== Community Guideline

Be nice and respectful to each other.

We follow the link:CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md[Contributor Covenant Code Of Conduct].

[[file-issue]]
== File an Issue

Please check briefly if there already exists an Issue with your topic.
If so, you can just add a comment to that with your information instead of creating a new Issue.

=== Report a bug

Reporting bugs is a good and easy way to contribute.

To do this, open an Issue that summarizes the bug and set the label to "bug".

=== Suggest a feature

To request a new feature you should and summarize the desired functionality and its use case.
Set the Issue label to "feature" or "enhancement".

=== Jitsi specific features
If the feature involves manipulating and/or retrieving data from the current Jitsi instance, it is crucial to conduct research to determine whether it is possible using the Jitsi API. The API documentation can be found https://jitsi.github.io/handbook/docs/dev-guide/dev-guide-iframe[here].


[[contribute-code]]
== Contribute Code, Documentation and more

You want to contribute code, documentation or 'your fantastic thing x'.
Great, however, there are some practical points to check to make sure that everything runs as smoothly as possible.

* It is always best to discuss your plans beforehand, to ensure that your contribution is in line with the project goals.
* Check the list of open Issues. Either assign an existing issue to yourself, or create a new one that you would like to work on, and discuss your ideas and use cases.
* Follow the project convention and style regarding test, code and documentation, commit style etc.
* The project can decide to decline a contribution not following the general project guidelines, or deemed to not fit into the general project goal/architecture.
* Make sure you have an understanding of the link:#pull-request[Pull Request Lifecycle]
* You agree to that in general, all contributions to this project will be released under the **inbound=outbound** norm, that is,
 contributions are submitted under the same terms as the project licenses. In a more formal way - 'Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of the projects License, without any additional terms or conditions.'
* link:#signoff-and-signing-a-commit[Sign your commits].

[[code-review]]
== Issues and Pull Request Feedback

The listed project maintainers (see the link:README.md[README]) of the project are doing their best to review and/or respond to Issues. *If the project is not listed as archived, it is maintained.*
You should expect feedback for an Issue or Pull Request in 5 business days.

NOTE: Feedback might mean a lot of things depending on the scope of your Issue/Pull Request.
What you should expect is at least a comment on your Issue.

NOTE: For non trivial and proposed bigger contributions, please discuss the contribution with the project first.
There might be occasions where the cost of maintenance and review have to be agreed upon before it can be merged and reviewed.

The quality of the given information in your Pull Request/Issue will affect the feedback loop.
So please keep the focus and topic, and be sure to give as much relevant information as possible.
It is highly recommended that you fill in the requested fields when submitting a contribution.

[[pull-request]]
== Pull Request Lifecycle

Generally speaking, you should fork this repository, make changes in your own fork, and then submit a pull-request.
This workflow is common, maybe even expected if nothing else mentioned, and is called the https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/getting-started/about-collaborative-development-models#fork-and-pull-model[Fork-and-Pull model]

A practical example of such a workflow could be:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a topic branch from your fork main branch, i.e. myfeaturebranch
3. Push your changes to the topic branch (in your fork) of the repository, i.e myfeaturebranch.
4. Open a new pull request to main project.
5. Project maintainers might comment and give feedback on your Pull Request.

[[commit-guideline]]
== Commit Guideline

=== Commit Standard

Aim for a clear human readable commit history. In this project we follow the https://www.conventionalcommits.org[Conventional Commit standard].

TIP: A Conventional Commit example: +
fix: add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter +
Would be read as 'When this fix is applied it will add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter'

=== DCO - Signoff and Signing a Commit

NOTE: Signoff and signing: Two similar terms for two different things +
**_A Signoff assures to the project that you have the right to contribute your content_** +
**_A Sign assures that the commit came from you_**

==== Signoff (DCO agree)

A standard practice in the Open Source communities is the https://developercertificate.org/[DCO - Developer Certificate of Origin].
DCO a lightweight way for a project to assure that the contributor wrote and/or have the right to submit the contribution.

It is super simple!

As part of filing a pull request you agree to the DCO - by just adding a *sign off*  to your commit.
Technically, this is done by supplying the `-s`/`--signoff` flag to your Git commits:

Example:
[source,shell]
----
$ git commit --signoff -m 'fix: add fix for superbug x'
----

==== Sign

You can also sign the commit with `-S`/`--gpg-sign`.
Besides extra trust, it also gives your commit a nice verified button in the UI on most Git platforms and further assures trust.

Older versions of Git requires that you have a GPG keypair set up, see https://docs.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/signing-commits[Sign commit on GitHub with GPG key].
For newer versions you can use SSH for signing https://github.blog/changelog/2022-08-23-ssh-commit-verification-now-supported/[Sign commit on GitHub with SSH key].

[source,shell]
----
`$ git commit --signoff --gpg-sign -m "fix: add fix for the bug"`
----

=== Commit Standard

Aim for a clear human readable commit history:

* **_First - does the project have a defined commit message practice, please follow that_**.
* Make sure you link:#dco-signoff-and-signing-a-commitsign-off[Sign-Off] your commits.
* In general
    ** If the project does not have a commit standard set, you might want to consider https://www.conventionalcommits.org[Conventional Commit standard].
    ** Group relevant changes in commits, avoid scope creep and keep focus on the relevant issue.
    ** Your commit messages should tell a human reader what will it do when the commit is applied.
    ** Make your commit message/s easily human readable in a expected way: +
        *** A Conventional Commit example: +
        _fix: add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter_ +
        Would be read as 'When this fix is applied it will add a null pointer check to MyMethod parameter'

[[security]]
== Reporting security issues

If you discover a security issue, please bring it to our attention.

If the vulnerability is a widely known issue, detected by various Vulnerability Scanning sources it might be okay to file an public Issue.

However, if any uncertainty around this, please **DO NOT** file a public issue, see link:SECURITY.md[Security information] for how to handle this.

Security reports are *greatly* appreciated.

[[development]]
== Development Guidelines

For a guide on how to get started with Development, see the link:./DEVELOPMENT.adoc[DEVELOPMENT Guide].

[[writing_style]]
## Writing style and Translations

Here are a few guidelines regarding text and documentation.

- Aim to keep the documentation EASY to read, and avoid the official "agency authority" style.
- Don't be to verbose, bullet points are good in this context.
- Be concise, in terminology, and avoid longer explanations, link instead.
- Write in British English first, i.e. colour instead of color.
- Strive to use https://sembr.org/[one-sentence-per-line] when writing in MarkDown or AsciiDoc.

English is the projects primary language, and any translations are done on a best effort basis.
This implies that for any contributions to the translated version, make sure that the English primary version contains the corresponding change.

[[standards]]
## FOSS Standards

This project aims to comply to the principles outlined in the following standards:

* License compliance with the https://reuse.software/[REUSE specification] (and with that, https://spdx.github.io/spdx-spec/v2.3/[SPDX-declarations]).
* Commits in the https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/[Conventional Commits format]
* Changelog in the https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.1.0/[Keep-A-Changelog format]
* Contribution guidelines https://www.contributor-covenant.org/[Contributor Covenant guidelines]
* Criteria for the project https://standard.publiccode.net/[Standard for Public Code]


**_Happy contributing!_**
